docs/index.md, before:

<!-- Footy documentation master file, created by
sphinx-quickstart on Sat Aug 15 19:24:36 2020.
You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
contain the root `toctree` directive. -->
# Welcome to Footy’s documentation!

# Footy

Footy - A statistics module for football (soccer).


### class footy.Footy()
Main class of the footy module.

Please note that methods that accept a team name parameter that the team
name must match exactly (including case sensitivity).  Use the
get_teams method to get a list of valid team names.

### Examples

```python
>>> import footy
>>> widget = footy.Footy()
>>> widget.add_team('Arsenal', 64, 36, 18, 19, 69)
>>> widget.add_team('Aston Villa', 53, 48, 18, 19, 59)
>>> widget.add_team('Blackburn', 40, 60, 18, 19, 40)
>>> widget.add_team('Bolton', 41, 52, 19, 18, 41)
>>> widget.add_team('Chelsea', 65, 22, 19, 18, 80)
>>> widget.add_team('Everton', 53, 37, 19, 18, 60)
>>> widget.add_team('Fulham', 39, 32, 18, 19, 53)
>>> widget.add_team('Hull', 39, 63, 18, 19, 35)
>>> widget.add_team('Liverpool', 74, 26, 18, 19, 83)
>>> widget.add_team('Man City', 57, 50, 18, 19, 47)
>>> widget.add_team('Man United', 67, 24, 19, 18, 87)
>>> widget.add_team('Middlesbrough', 27, 55, 19, 18, 32)
>>> widget.add_team('Newcastle', 40, 58, 19, 18, 34)
>>> widget.add_team('Portsmouth', 38, 56, 19, 18, 41)
>>> widget.add_team('Stoke', 37, 51, 19, 18, 45)
>>> widget.add_team('Sunderland', 32, 51, 18, 19, 36)
>>> widget.add_team('Tottenham', 44, 42, 19, 18, 51)
>>> widget.add_team('West Brom', 36, 67, 19, 18, 31)
>>> widget.add_team('West Ham', 40, 44, 18, 19, 48)
>>> widget.add_team('Wigan', 33, 45, 18, 19, 42)
```

Get the data contained by the object as a Pandas dataframe.

```python
>>> widget.dataframe()
```

Setting the number of average goals scored.

```python
>>> widget.average_goals_scored_by_a_home_team(1.36)
>>> widget.average_goals_scored_by_an_away_team(1.06)
>>> widget.score_probability('Arsenal', 'Stoke').head()
```

Plot the outcome probability

```python
>>> widget.outcome_probability('Arsenal', 'Stoke')
```

Get a list of all the teams from the dataset.

```python
>>> widget.get_teams()
```


#### add_team(team_name, goals_for, goals_against, home_games, away_games, points)
Add a team to the table.


* **Parameters**

    
    * **team_name** (*str*) – The name of the team to add.


    * **goals_for** (*int*) – The number of goals scored by the team.


    * **goals_against** (*int*) – The number of goals conceded by the team.


    * **home_games** (*int*) – The number of home games played by the team.


    * **away_games** (*int*) – The number of away games played by the team.


    * **points** (*int*) – The number of points in the table that the team has.



#### attack_strength(team_name)
Get the attack strength of a team.


* **Parameters**

    **team_name** (*str*) – The name of the team to get the attack strength of.



* **Returns**

    The attack strength of the team.  If there is not enough data to
    calculate this correctly, return None.



* **Return type**

    float



* **Raises**

    **KeyError** – When a team name is provided that is not in the dataset.



#### average_goals_scored_by_a_home_team(goals=None)
Get or set the average goals scored by a home team.


* **Parameters**

    **goals** (*float*) – The average number of goals scored by any team playing at home
    over the duration of the season.



* **Returns**

    The average number of goals scored by any team playing at home
    over the duration of the season.



* **Return type**

    float



#### average_goals_scored_by_an_away_team(goals=None)
Get or set the average goals scored by an away team.


* **Parameters**

    **goals** (*float*) – The average number of goals scored by any team playing away
    over the duration of the season.



* **Returns**

    The average number of goals scored by any team playing away
    over the duration of the season.



* **Return type**

    float



#### brier_score(y_true, y_prob)
Return a Brier Score of the probability against the actuality.


* **Parameters**

    
    * **y_true** (*np.array*) – What actually happened.  Should be a value for each predicted
    category (e.g. home win, score draw or away win).


    * **y_prob** (*np.array*) – The predicted probability of each category.  The number of
    elements in this parameter must match the number of parameters
    given in y_true. The sum of all the values of this list cannot
    exceed 1.0.



* **Returns**

    A value between 0.0 and 2.0 where a value closer to 0.0 indicates
    that a predicted probability was more accurate that a value
    closer to 2.0.  This result will be rounded to the nearest two
    decimal places.



* **Return type**

    float


### References

Brier, G.W. (1950): “Verification of Forecasts Expressed in Terms of
Probability”, Monthly Weather Review, volume 79, number 1.

### Examples

```python
>>> import footy
>>> footy.brier_score(np.array([1, 0, 0]), np.array([1.0, 0.0, 0.0]))
0.0
```


#### data(data=None)
Get or set the object data.


* **Parameters**

    **data** (*dict**, **optional*) – A new dictionary to replace the objects data.



* **Returns**

    The object data.



* **Return type**

    dict



#### dataframe()
Return the object data as a Pandas dataframe.

The dataframe will be sorted on the number of points and goal
difference.


* **Returns**

    The object data as a Pandas DataFrame.



* **Return type**

    pandas.DataFrame



#### defence_factor(team_name)
Get the defence factor for a team.


* **Parameters**

    **team_name** (*str*) – The name of the team to get the defence factor for.



* **Returns**

    The defence factor for a specific team.  If there is not enough
    data to calculate correctly, return None.



* **Return type**

    float



* **Raises**

    **KeyError** – When a team name is provided that is not in the dataset.



#### fixture(home_team, away_team)
Calculate the probabilities of a fixture between two teams.


* **Parameters**

    
    * **home_team** (*str*) – The name of the home team.


    * **away_team** (*str*) – The name of the away team.



* **Returns**

    If there is enough data for any probabilities to be calculated,
    the dictionary will contain elements called:

    outcome_probabilities: A list of three floats indicating (with
    values between 0.0 and 1.0) the probability of a home win, a
    score draw or an away win respectively.

    home_team_goals_probability: A list of seven floats indicating
    (with values between 0.0 and 1.0) the probability of the home team
    scoring between 0 and 6 goals.

    away_team_goals_probability: A list of seven floats indicating
    (with values between 0.0 and 1.0) the probability of the away team
    scoring between 0 and 6 goals.

    final_score_probabilities:  A Pandas DataFrame with each row
    containing the number of goals scored by the home team, the number
    of goals scored by the away team and the probability of that final
    score.  The table will be sorted with the most probable results
    descending.

    If there is not enough data to calculate the probabilities, the
    dictionary returned by this function will be empty.




* **Return type**

    dict



* **Raises**

    **KeyError** – When a team name is provided that is not in the dataset.



#### get_team(team_name)
Get the details of a specific team from the dataset.


* **Parameters**

    **team_name** (*str*) – The name of the team that the details are to be returned for.



* **Raises**

    **KeyError** – When a team name is provided that is not in the dataset.



* **Returns**

    The elements of the returned dictionary are goals_for (the number
    of goals scored), goals_against (the number of goals conceded),
    home_games (number of games played at home), away_games (number of
    games played away).



* **Return type**

    dict


### Examples

Get the data specific to Arsenal.

```python
>>> widget.get_team('Arsenal')
{'goals_for': 64, 'goals_against': 36, 'home_games': 18,
 'away_games': 19}
```


#### get_teams()
Get a list of the team names held in the dataset.


* **Returns**

    A list of the team names.



* **Return type**

    List of str


### Examples

Get a list of all the teams from the dataset.

```python
>>> widget.get_teams()
['Arsenal',
 'Aston Villa',
 'Blackburn',
 'Bolton',
 'Chelsea',
 'Everton',
 'Fulham',
 'Hull',
 'Liverpool',
 'Man City',
 'Man United',
 'Middlesbrough',
 'Newcastle',
 'Portsmouth',
 'Stoke',
 'Sunderland',
 'Tottenham',
 'West Brom',
 'West Ham',
 'Wigan']
```


#### goals_conceded(team_name=None)
Get the number of goals conceded.

If the team name is provided then the number of goals conceded by
that team is returned.  Otherwise the number of goals conceded by
all teams is returned.


* **Parameters**

    **team_name** (*str**, **optional*) – The name of the team to get the number of goals conceded.



* **Returns**

    The number of goals conceded by the team or the league.



* **Return type**

    int



* **Raises**

    **KeyError** – When a team name is provided that is not in the dataset.



#### goals_scored(team_name=None)
Get the number of goals scored.

If team_name is provided, the number of goals scored by
that team is returned.  If not, the average number of
goals scored by all teams is returned.


* **Parameters**

    **team_name** (*str**, **optional*) – The name of the team to get the number of goals scored.



* **Returns**

    The number of goals scored by a team or in the league.



* **Return type**

    int



* **Raises**

    **KeyError** – When a team name is provided that is not in the dataset.



### footy.OUTCOME_AWAY_WIN( = [0, 0, 1])
The notation of an away outcome.


* **Type**

    List of int



### footy.OUTCOME_HOME_WIN( = [1, 0, 0])
The notation of a home win outcome.


* **Type**

    List of int



### footy.OUTCOME_SCORE_DRAW( = [0, 1, 0])
The notation of a score draw outcome.


* **Type**

    List of int

Commit message:

Update documentation to match the new fixture method.

docs/index.md, after:

<!-- Footy documentation master file, created by
sphinx-quickstart on Sat Aug 15 19:24:36 2020.
You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
contain the root `toctree` directive. -->
# Welcome to Footy’s documentation!

# Footy

Footy - A statistics module for football (soccer).


### class footy.Footy()
Main class of the footy module.

Please note that methods that accept a team name parameter that the team
name must match exactly (including case sensitivity).  Use the
get_teams method to get a list of valid team names.

### Examples

```python
>>> import footy
>>> widget = footy.Footy()
>>> widget.add_team('Arsenal', 64, 36, 18, 19, 69)
>>> widget.add_team('Aston Villa', 53, 48, 18, 19, 59)
>>> widget.add_team('Blackburn', 40, 60, 18, 19, 40)
>>> widget.add_team('Bolton', 41, 52, 19, 18, 41)
>>> widget.add_team('Chelsea', 65, 22, 19, 18, 80)
>>> widget.add_team('Everton', 53, 37, 19, 18, 60)
>>> widget.add_team('Fulham', 39, 32, 18, 19, 53)
>>> widget.add_team('Hull', 39, 63, 18, 19, 35)
>>> widget.add_team('Liverpool', 74, 26, 18, 19, 83)
>>> widget.add_team('Man City', 57, 50, 18, 19, 47)
>>> widget.add_team('Man United', 67, 24, 19, 18, 87)
>>> widget.add_team('Middlesbrough', 27, 55, 19, 18, 32)
>>> widget.add_team('Newcastle', 40, 58, 19, 18, 34)
>>> widget.add_team('Portsmouth', 38, 56, 19, 18, 41)
>>> widget.add_team('Stoke', 37, 51, 19, 18, 45)
>>> widget.add_team('Sunderland', 32, 51, 18, 19, 36)
>>> widget.add_team('Tottenham', 44, 42, 19, 18, 51)
>>> widget.add_team('West Brom', 36, 67, 19, 18, 31)
>>> widget.add_team('West Ham', 40, 44, 18, 19, 48)
>>> widget.add_team('Wigan', 33, 45, 18, 19, 42)
```

Get the data contained by the object as a Pandas dataframe (sorted by
league position and goal difference).

```python
>>> widget.dataframe()
```

Setting the number of average goals scored.

```python
>>> widget.average_goals_scored_by_a_home_team(1.36)
>>> widget.average_goals_scored_by_an_away_team(1.06)
```

Now get the prediction of game (will return None if not enough data is
available).  For the full details of the response returned, see the
fixture method.

```python
>>> response = widget.fixture('Arsenal', 'Stoke')
```

Get a list of all the teams from the dataset.

```python
>>> widget.get_teams()
```


#### add_team(team_name, goals_for, goals_against, home_games, away_games, points)
Add a team to the table.


* **Parameters**

    
    * **team_name** (*str*) – The name of the team to add.


    * **goals_for** (*int*) – The number of goals scored by the team.


    * **goals_against** (*int*) – The number of goals conceded by the team.


    * **home_games** (*int*) – The number of home games played by the team.


    * **away_games** (*int*) – The number of away games played by the team.


    * **points** (*int*) – The number of points in the table that the team has.



#### attack_strength(team_name)
Get the attack strength of a team.


* **Parameters**

    **team_name** (*str*) – The name of the team to get the attack strength of.



* **Returns**

    The attack strength of the team.  If there is not enough data to
    calculate this correctly, return None.



* **Return type**

    float



* **Raises**

    **KeyError** – When a team name is provided that is not in the dataset.



#### average_goals_scored_by_a_home_team(goals=None)
Get or set the average goals scored by a home team.


* **Parameters**

    **goals** (*float*) – The average number of goals scored by any team playing at home
    over the duration of the season.



* **Returns**

    The average number of goals scored by any team playing at home
    over the duration of the season.



* **Return type**

    float



#### average_goals_scored_by_an_away_team(goals=None)
Get or set the average goals scored by an away team.


* **Parameters**

    **goals** (*float*) – The average number of goals scored by any team playing away
    over the duration of the season.



* **Returns**

    The average number of goals scored by any team playing away
    over the duration of the season.



* **Return type**

    float



#### brier_score(y_true, y_prob)
Return a Brier Score of the probability against the actuality.


* **Parameters**

    
    * **y_true** (*np.array*) – What actually happened.  Should be a value for each predicted
    category (e.g. home win, score draw or away win).


    * **y_prob** (*np.array*) – The predicted probability of each category.  The number of
    elements in this parameter must match the number of parameters
    given in y_true. The sum of all the values of this list cannot
    exceed 1.0.



* **Returns**

    A value between 0.0 and 2.0 where a value closer to 0.0 indicates
    that a predicted probability was more accurate that a value
    closer to 2.0.  This result will be rounded to the nearest two
    decimal places.



* **Return type**

    float


### References

Brier, G.W. (1950): “Verification of Forecasts Expressed in Terms of
Probability”, Monthly Weather Review, volume 79, number 1.

### Examples

```python
>>> import footy
>>> footy.brier_score(np.array([1, 0, 0]), np.array([1.0, 0.0, 0.0]))
0.0
```


#### data(data=None)
Get or set the object data.


* **Parameters**

    **data** (*dict**, **optional*) – A new dictionary to replace the objects data.



* **Returns**

    The object data.



* **Return type**

    dict



#### dataframe()
Return the object data as a Pandas dataframe.

The dataframe will be sorted on the number of points and goal
difference.


* **Returns**

    The object data as a Pandas DataFrame.



* **Return type**

    pandas.DataFrame



#### defence_factor(team_name)
Get the defence factor for a team.


* **Parameters**

    **team_name** (*str*) – The name of the team to get the defence factor for.



* **Returns**

    The defence factor for a specific team.  If there is not enough
    data to calculate correctly, return None.



* **Return type**

    float



* **Raises**

    **KeyError** – When a team name is provided that is not in the dataset.



#### fixture(home_team, away_team)
Calculate the probabilities of a fixture between two teams.


* **Parameters**

    
    * **home_team** (*str*) – The name of the home team.


    * **away_team** (*str*) – The name of the away team.



* **Returns**

    If there is enough data for any probabilities to be calculated,
    the dictionary will contain elements called:

    outcome_probabilities: A list of three floats indicating (with
    values between 0.0 and 1.0) the probability of a home win, a
    score draw or an away win respectively.

    home_team_goals_probability: A list of seven floats indicating
    (with values between 0.0 and 1.0) the probability of the home team
    scoring between 0 and 6 goals.

    away_team_goals_probability: A list of seven floats indicating
    (with values between 0.0 and 1.0) the probability of the away team
    scoring between 0 and 6 goals.

    final_score_probabilities:  A Pandas DataFrame with each row
    containing the number of goals scored by the home team, the number
    of goals scored by the away team and the probability of that final
    score.  The table will be sorted with the most probable results
    descending.

    If there is not enough data to calculate the probabilities, the
    dictionary returned by this function will be empty.




* **Return type**

    dict



* **Raises**

    **KeyError** – When a team name is provided that is not in the dataset.



#### get_team(team_name)
Get the details of a specific team from the dataset.


* **Parameters**

    **team_name** (*str*) – The name of the team that the details are to be returned for.



* **Raises**

    **KeyError** – When a team name is provided that is not in the dataset.



* **Returns**

    The elements of the returned dictionary are goals_for (the number
    of goals scored), goals_against (the number of goals conceded),
    home_games (number of games played at home), away_games (number of
    games played away).



* **Return type**

    dict


### Examples

Get the data specific to Arsenal.

```python
>>> widget.get_team('Arsenal')
{'goals_for': 64, 'goals_against': 36, 'home_games': 18,
 'away_games': 19}
```


#### get_teams()
Get a list of the team names held in the dataset.


* **Returns**

    A list of the team names.



* **Return type**

    List of str


### Examples

Get a list of all the teams from the dataset.

```python
>>> widget.get_teams()
['Arsenal',
 'Aston Villa',
 'Blackburn',
 'Bolton',
 'Chelsea',
 'Everton',
 'Fulham',
 'Hull',
 'Liverpool',
 'Man City',
 'Man United',
 'Middlesbrough',
 'Newcastle',
 'Portsmouth',
 'Stoke',
 'Sunderland',
 'Tottenham',
 'West Brom',
 'West Ham',
 'Wigan']
```


#### goals_conceded(team_name=None)
Get the number of goals conceded.

If the team name is provided then the number of goals conceded by
that team is returned.  Otherwise the number of goals conceded by
all teams is returned.


* **Parameters**

    **team_name** (*str**, **optional*) – The name of the team to get the number of goals conceded.



* **Returns**

    The number of goals conceded by the team or the league.



* **Return type**

    int



* **Raises**

    **KeyError** – When a team name is provided that is not in the dataset.



#### goals_scored(team_name=None)
Get the number of goals scored.

If team_name is provided, the number of goals scored by
that team is returned.  If not, the average number of
goals scored by all teams is returned.


* **Parameters**

    **team_name** (*str**, **optional*) – The name of the team to get the number of goals scored.



* **Returns**

    The number of goals scored by a team or in the league.



* **Return type**

    int



* **Raises**

    **KeyError** – When a team name is provided that is not in the dataset.



### footy.OUTCOME_AWAY_WIN( = [0, 0, 1])
The notation of an away outcome.


* **Type**

    List of int



### footy.OUTCOME_HOME_WIN( = [1, 0, 0])
The notation of a home win outcome.


* **Type**

    List of int



### footy.OUTCOME_SCORE_DRAW( = [0, 1, 0])
The notation of a score draw outcome.


* **Type**

    List of int
